Teacher: Good afternoon everyone! I'm excited about today's lesson. We're going to do a debate about renewable energy!
Teacher: First, let's review. What types of renewable energy have you heard of? Call them out!
Student 1: Solar power!
Student 2: Wind turbines!
Student 3: Hydroelectric!
Student 4: Geothermal?
Student 5: Nuclear... wait, is that renewable?
Teacher: Great question, Michael! Nuclear is actually a debate itself. It's low-carbon but the fuel isn't technically renewable. What do you all think?
Student 2: I think it counts because it doesn't pollute the air like coal.
Student 6: But what about the nuclear waste? That's really dangerous.
Student 1: My dad works at a solar company. He says solar is getting cheaper every year.
Teacher: Excellent points from everyone! You're already in debate mode. Now let's organize this.
Teacher: I'm dividing you into four groups. Each group will argue for a different energy source: solar, wind, hydro, or nuclear.
Student 3: Can we pick which one we want to argue for?
Teacher: Actually, I'm going to assign them randomly. Part of learning is arguing for positions you might not initially agree with.
Student 4: That's hard but kind of cool.
Teacher: You have 15 minutes to prepare your arguments. Use the fact sheets I'm handing out, and you can also use the tablets to research.
[Group Discussion and Research]
Student 7: Teacher, we found out that Denmark gets over 40% of its electricity from wind!
Teacher: Fantastic research! Make sure to use that statistic in your argument.
Student 5: Our group wants to know - can we mention the disadvantages of other energy sources?
Teacher: Absolutely! A good debate addresses counterarguments. Just make sure you're also highlighting your source's strengths.
[More Group Discussion]
Teacher: Okay, time's up! Let's start our debate. Solar team, you're up first. You have 3 minutes.
Student 1: Solar power is the best because the sun is free and it shines everywhere. Germany and China are leading the world in solar panel installation.
Student 8: Also, solar panels can go on rooftops so you don't need extra land. And the costs have dropped by 90% in the last decade!
Teacher: Strong opening! Wind team, your rebuttal?
Student 2: But what happens at night? Or on cloudy days? Wind turbines can work 24/7 as long as there's wind.
Student 3: And offshore wind farms don't take up any land at all!
Teacher: Great points! This is exactly the kind of critical thinking I want to see. Let's hear from the hydro team.
Student 4: Hydroelectric power is the most reliable. Dams can store water and release it whenever we need electricity.
Student 6: It's also the oldest renewable energy. We've been using it for over 100 years, so we know it works.
Teacher: And nuclear team?
Student 5: Nuclear produces the most energy with the smallest footprint. One nuclear plant makes as much power as thousands of wind turbines.
Student 7: And France gets 70% of its electricity from nuclear with very low emissions.
Teacher: Wonderful debate everyone! You've all made compelling arguments. For homework, I want you to write a one-page reflection on which energy source YOU think is best and why.
Student 8: Can we say we think a combination is best?
Teacher: Absolutely! In fact, most experts agree that a mix of renewable sources is the most practical solution. Great critical thinking!
Teacher: I'm really proud of how engaged you all were today. See you tomorrow!